= RageRender

A template parser and site generator that can render a webcomic site using
ComicFury templates, using the Jekyll static site generator.

== What's this?

{ComicFury}[https://comicfury.com] is an excellent no-bullshit webcomic hosting
site created and maintained by the legend Kyo. You should support them on
{Patreon}[https://www.patreon.com/comicfury]!

{Jekyll}[https://jekyllrb.com] is a highly regarded and widespread static site
generator. It builds simple slowly-changing content into HTML files using
templates.

RageRender allows you to use your ComicFury templates to generate a static
version of your webcomic site using Jekyll. You just supply your templates,
comics and blogs, and RageRender will output a site that mimics your ComicFury
site.

Well, I say "mimics". Output is a static site, which means all of the
interactive elements of ComicFury don't work. This includes comments,
subscriptions, search, and comic management.

=== But why?!

RageRender allows those of us who work on making changes to ComicFury site
templates to test our changes before we put them live.

With RageRender, you can edit your CSS, HTML templates and site settings before
you upload them to ComicFury. This makes the process of testing changes quicker
and makes it much more likely that you catch mistakes before any comic readers
have a chance to see them.

RageRender doesn't compete with the most excellent ComicFury (who's Patreon you
should contribute to, as I do!) – you should continue to use ComicFury for all
your day-to-day artistic rage management needs. But if you find yourself making
changes to a site design, RageRender may be able to help you.

== Getting started

First, you need to have {Ruby}[https://www.ruby-lang.org/] and
{Bundler}[https://bundle.io/] installed. The Jekyll site has {good guides on how
to do that}[https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/] depending on your operating
system.

To set up a new site, open a terminal and type:

  mkdir mycomic && cd mycomic
  bundle init
  bundle add jekyll
  bundle add ragerender

Now you can add comics! Add the image into an <tt>images</tt> folder:

  mkdir images
  cp 'cool comic.jpg' 'images/My first page.jpg'

The file name of the image will be the title of your comic page. And that's it,
you added your first comic!

If you want to add an author note, create a text file in a folder called
<tt>_comics</tt> that has the same file name, but with a <tt>.md</tt> extension:

  mkdir _comics
  echo "Check out my cool comic y'all!" > '_comics/My first page.md'

Generate the site using:

  bundle exec jekyll build

Or start a local website to see it in your browser:

  bundle exec jekyll serve
  # Now visit http://localhost:4000!

=== Customising your site

You'll notice a few things that might be off about your site, including that the
webcomic title and author name are probably not what you were expecting.

You can create a configuration file to tell RageRender the important details.
Put something like this in your webcomic folder and call it
<tt>_config.yml</tt>:

  title: "My awesome webcomic!"
  slogan: "It's the best!"
  description: >
    My epic story about how him and her
    fell into a romantic polycule with they and them

  defaults:
  - scope:
      path: ''
    values:
      author: "John smith"

  theme: ragerender

Your webcomic now has its basic information set up.

=== Adding your layouts

If you want to use your own layout code, then create a <tt>_layouts</tt>
directory and put the contents of each of your ComicFury layout tabs in there,
and then put your CSS in the main folder. You should end up with a full set of
files like:

  _layouts
    archive.html
    blog-archive.html
    blog-display.html
    comic-page.html
    error-page.html
    overall.html
    overview.html
    search.html
  layout.css

Now when you build your site, your custom templates and styles will be used
instead.

=== Adding blogs

Add your blogs into a folder called `_posts`:

  cat _posts/2025-05-29-my-new-comic.md
  Hey guys, welcome to my new comic! It's gonna be so sick!

Note that the name of your blog post has to include the date and the title, or
it'll be ignored.

=== Customising comics and blogs

You can add {Front Matter}[https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/] to set the
details of your author notes and blogs manually:

  ---
  title: "spooky comic page"
  date: "2025-03-05 16:20"
  image: "images/ghost.png"
  author: "Jane doe"
  custom:
    # use yes and no for tickbox settings
    spooky: yes
    # use text in quotes for short texts
    mantra: "live long and prosper"
    # use indented text for long texts
    haiku: >
      Testing webcomics
      Now easier than ever
      Thanks to RageRender
  comments:
    - author: "Skippy"
      date: "13 Mar 2025, 3.45 PM"
      comment: "Wow this is so sick!"
  ---
  Your author note still goes at the end, like this!

=== Adding extra pages

You can add extra pages just by adding new HTML files to your webcomic folder.
The name of the file becomes the URL that it will use.

Pages by default won't be embedded into your 'Overall' layout. You can change
that and more with optional Front Matter:

  ---
  # Include this line to set the page title
  title: "Bonus content"
  # Include this line to hide the page from the navigation menu
  hidden: yes
  # Include this line to embed this page in the overall layout
  layout: Overall
  ---
  <h1>yo check out my bonus content!</h1>

=== Stuff that doesn't work

Here is a probably incomplete list of things you can expect to be different
about your local site compared to ComicFury:

- Any comments you specify in Front Matter will be present, but you can't add
  new ones
- Search doesn't do anything at all
- Saving and loading your place in the comic isn't implemented
- GET and POST variables in templates are ignored and will always be blank
- Random numbers in templates will be random only once per site build, not once
  per page call

== Without Jekyll

RageRender can also be used without Jekyll to turn ComicFury templates into
templates in other languages.

E.g:

  gem install ragerender
  echo "[c:iscomicpage]<div>[f:js|v:comictitle]</div>[/]" > template.html
  ruby $(gem which ragerender/to_liquid) template.html
  # {% if iscomicpage   %}<div>{{ comictitle | escape }}</div>{% endif %}
  ruby $(gem which ragerender/to_erb) template.html
  # <% if  iscomicpage   %><div><%= js(comictitle) %></div><% end %>

You still need to pass the correct variables to these templates; browse {this
unofficial documentation}[https://github.com/heyeinin/comicfury-documentation]
or RageRender::ComicDrop etc. to see which variables work on which templates.

== Get help

That's not a proclamation but an invitation! Reach out if you're having trouble
by {raising an issue}[https://github.com/simonwo/ragerender/issues] or posting
in the ComicFury forums.
